Slide 1:
Hello, everyone.
We're excited to be here for the final presentation.

Slide 2:
we are a team with four members, Yan, Vyshnavi, Xiang, and Lauri, 
under the supervision of Professor Parv.

Slide 3:
Now, Let's get started with the context of our project.

Making music is a popular activity for children, but about 50% discontinue their musical activities by age 17.

At the same time, many others start their musical journey with used instruments because it's cost-effective and sufficient for learning basic musical skills. 

However, the complex pricing of musical instruments, influenced by factors like brand and condition, poses challenges for beginners.

This situation highlights a potential market among those discontinuing and those beginning their musical journey.

Slide 4:
This also raises a question - How can we assist both beginners and sellers in determining a fair price for used musical instruments?

Slide 5:
To address this question, we started our project.

Due to time constraints, 
our goal is to estimate the price of only one instrument, acoustic guitar,
using deep learning techniques.

Our dataset include two parts, the image and other relevant details, like condition, brand, and price.
 
All of them are scraped from the Guitar Center's shopping website.

Slide 6:
Before model training process, we divided the price into eight ranges. 
this can transform the task from regression to classification, which is more suitable for deep learning models.

Then, we designed a four-layer fully connected network to train our model on tabular data.

Next, we utilized four classic architectures to train our models on image data, including, ResNet, SqueezeNet, DenseNet, and VGG16.

Finally, we combined two kinds of model to create ensemble models for price range prediction.

Slide 7:
This is the architecture of our models. 

For the tabular data model, we have four fully connected layers with activation functions and dropout regularization.

For the image models, we typically followed the main structure and added two fully connected layers to align with our target classification tasks.

The only exception is SqueezeNet; we modified its convolutional layer to output eight nodes for the classification task, since it uses average pooling instead of a fully connected layer at the end.

Slide 8:
For the ensemble model, we concatenate features from the pre-trained image models and the tabular data model, followed by a fully connected layer for classification task.

Slide 9:
Finally, We achieved a model with 44% of accuracy, which is better than our benchmark - the tabular data model. But the results are not as promising as we had hoped.

In our lectures, we learned that model ensemble could enjoy 2% extra performance. Unfortunately, our ensemble models didn't show significant improvements.

Slide 10:
In the end, let's recap the challenges we have faced.

Initially, we collected images of various guitar parts, but not all of them were relevant or informative for price prediction. 

Given our limited expertise in musical instruments, we consulted a music instructor Lauren. She helped us define the model's scope, only focusing on the guitar's soundboard, as it is the key factor affecting the price.

Meanwhile, our images included messy backgrounds and extraneous parts, prompting us to develop another heuristic algorithm to isolate the soundboard from the images.

Additionally, our guitar images were taken from different angles, perspectives, and light intensities. This required us to apply various data augmentation techniques to manage these variations.

Finally, the accuracy of our model is not very high. In the future, we need to incorporate additional types of data, such as audio, to enhance the price prediction.

Slide 11:
That concludes our presentation, Thank you.